README.md, before:

# starlingbank

A python package that provides limited access to the Starling bank API.

* [Links](#links)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
  * [Import](#import)
  * [Initialisation](#initialisation)
  * [Data](#data)
    * [Basic Account Data](#basic-account-data)
    * [Balance Data](#balance-data)
    * [Savings Goal Data](#savings-goal-data)
  * [Update a Single Savings Goal](#update-a-single-savings-goal)
  * [Add to / withdraw from a Savings Goal](#add-to--withdraw-from-a-savings-goal)
  * [Download a Savings Goal Image](#download-a-savings-goal-image)


## Links

* https://www.starlingbank.com/
* https://developer.starlingbank.com/

## Installation
```shell
pip install starlingbank
```

## Usage
### Import
```python
from starlingbank import StarlingAccount
```

### Initialisation
```python
my_account = StarlingAccount("<INSERT API TOKEN HERE>")
```
If using a sandbox token:
```python
my_account = StarlingAccount("<INSERT API TOKEN HERE>", sandbox=True)
```

### Data
3 data sets are currently supported:

1. Basic Account Data
2. Balance Data
3. Savings Goal Data

To save on wasted API calls no data is collected when you initialise a StarlingAccount. You have to request / refresh each set of data as required with the following commands:

```python
my_account.update_account_data()
my_account.update_balance_data()
my_account.update_savings_goal_data()
```

#### Basic Account Data
Properties:

* id
* name
* number
* account_number
* sort_code
* currency
* iban
* bic
* created_at

Example:
```python
print(my_account.account_number)
```

#### Balance Data
Properties:

* currency
* cleared_balance
* effective_balance
* pending_transactions
* available_to_spend
* accepted_overdraft

Example:

```python
print(my_account.effective_balance)
```

#### Savings Goal Data
Savings goals are stored as a dictionary of objects where the dictionary key is the savings goals uid. To get a list of savings goal names and their respective uids you can run:

```python
for uid, goal in my_account.savings_goals.items():
    print("{0} = {1}".format(uid, goal.name))
```

Each goal has the following properties:

* uid
* name
* target_currency
* target_minor_units
* total_saved_currency
* total_saved_minor_units

_Note: Values are in minor units e.g. £1.50 will be represented as 150._

Example:
```python
print(my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].total_saved_minor_units)
```

### Update a Single Savings Goal
The `update_savings_goal_data()` method will update all savings goals but you can also update them individually with the following method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].update()
```

### Add to / withdraw from a Savings Goal
You can add funds to a savings goal with the followng method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].deposit(1000)
```

You can add funds to a savings goal with the followng method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].withdraw(1000)
```

_Note: Both methods above will call an update after the transfer so that the local total_saved value is correct._

### Download a Savings Goal Image
You can download the image associated with a savings goal to file with the following method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].get_image('<YOUR CHOSEN FILENAME>.png')
```
_Note: If the filename is ommitted the name of the goal will be used. You can optionally specify a full path alongside the filename if required._

Commit message:

Added Update on Init Option

README.md, after:

# starlingbank

A python package that provides limited access to the Starling bank API.

* [Links](#links)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
  * [Import](#import)
  * [Initialisation](#initialisation)
  * [Data](#data)
    * [Basic Account Data](#basic-account-data)
    * [Balance Data](#balance-data)
    * [Savings Goal Data](#savings-goal-data)
  * [Update a Single Savings Goal](#update-a-single-savings-goal)
  * [Add to / withdraw from a Savings Goal](#add-to--withdraw-from-a-savings-goal)
  * [Download a Savings Goal Image](#download-a-savings-goal-image)


## Links

* https://www.starlingbank.com/
* https://developer.starlingbank.com/

## Installation
```shell
pip install starlingbank
```

## Usage
### Import
```python
from starlingbank import StarlingAccount
```

### Initialisation
```python
my_account = StarlingAccount("<INSERT API TOKEN HERE>")
```
If using a sandbox token:
```python
my_account = StarlingAccount("<INSERT API TOKEN HERE>", sandbox=True)
```
By default, to save on wasted API calls no data is collected when you initialise a StarlingAccount. To optionally update all data on initialisation use the following:
```python
my_account = StarlingAccount("<INSERT API TOKEN HERE>", update=True)
```

### Data
3 data sets are currently supported:

1. Basic Account Data
2. Balance Data
3. Savings Goal Data

 You have to request / refresh each set of data as required with the following commands:

```python
my_account.update_account_data()
my_account.update_balance_data()
my_account.update_savings_goal_data()
```

#### Basic Account Data
Properties:

* id
* name
* number
* account_number
* sort_code
* currency
* iban
* bic
* created_at

Example:
```python
print(my_account.account_number)
```

#### Balance Data
Properties:

* currency
* cleared_balance
* effective_balance
* pending_transactions
* available_to_spend
* accepted_overdraft

Example:

```python
print(my_account.effective_balance)
```

#### Savings Goal Data
Savings goals are stored as a dictionary of objects where the dictionary key is the savings goals uid. To get a list of savings goal names and their respective uids you can run:

```python
for uid, goal in my_account.savings_goals.items():
    print("{0} = {1}".format(uid, goal.name))
```

Each goal has the following properties:

* uid
* name
* target_currency
* target_minor_units
* total_saved_currency
* total_saved_minor_units

_Note: Values are in minor units e.g. £1.50 will be represented as 150._

Example:
```python
print(my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].total_saved_minor_units)
```

### Update a Single Savings Goal
The `update_savings_goal_data()` method will update all savings goals but you can also update them individually with the following method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].update()
```

### Add to / withdraw from a Savings Goal
You can add funds to a savings goal with the followng method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].deposit(1000)
```

You can add funds to a savings goal with the followng method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].withdraw(1000)
```

_Note: Both methods above will call an update after the transfer so that the local total_saved value is correct._

### Download a Savings Goal Image
You can download the image associated with a savings goal to file with the following method:
```python
my_account.savings_goals['c8553fd8-8260-65a6-885a-e0cb45691512'].get_image('<YOUR CHOSEN FILENAME>.png')
```
_Note: If the filename is ommitted the name of the goal will be used. You can optionally specify a full path alongside the filename if required._
